well howdy there internet people it's
beau again so today we're going to talk
about a term
a term that most people have heard but
maybe not everybody understands
and we're really going to talk about it
okay
so a term exists and it came into
popular usage
after january 17 1961 when president
eisenhower
gave his farewell address
in his speech
a vital element in keeping the peace is
our military establishment
our arms must be mighty ready for
instant action
so that no potential aggressor may be
tempted to risk his own destruction
this conjunction of an immense military
establishment
in a large arms industry is new in the
american experience
the total influence economic political
even spiritual is felt in every city
every state house every office of the
federal government
we recognize the imperative need for
this development
yet we must not fail to comprehend its
grave implications
our toil resources and livelihood
are all involved so is the very
structure of our society
in the councils of government we must
guard
against the acquisition of unwarranted
influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial
complex the potential for the disastrous
rise of misplaced power
exists and will persist
the military industrial complex
when that term gets thrown out
people oftentimes don't really know what
it means just this
shady smoke-filled room with a whole
bunch of guys
and cigars at a table drinking brandy
talking about how to take over the world
it's not what it is the key word in that
speech
isn't military industrial it's influence
it's influence the
the complex as it is
is arms manufacturers making profit
then using that profit to influence
government
to purchase more arms for the military
the military and gets the arms
and this is where it turns bad all of
this is normal business in the united
states not
necessarily good but it's normal
here's the thing about arms if you are
selling arms
um let's take ammo for example
you sell ammo you make
ammo in order to sell more if the
military is your client
they have to use it in order to stay
profitable they have to use it
there's only so much they're going to
use with training and ammo has a really
long shelf life
so how are they going to use it this is
why you have defense
firms funding think tanks
these think tanks often
encourage adventurism intervening in
countries where we
really maybe shouldn't it harms public
policy
it's against the public good that
influence
gets used as a reason
for war it pushes the war narrative that
war-based economy
have to keep it moving ammo rockets it's
all got to keep getting built
because it becomes so pervasive it's
everywhere it's in our schools
it's everywhere and it contributes to
the militarization of our society as a
whole because we
become used to it you know
up until the 1900s the u.s military ran
their own armories
and then after world war ii well then it
became
an industry it became a huge industry
with a lot of money and a lot of
influence
that influence runs contrary to the
public good
now obviously
one of the key things we should do is
start to curtail that influence
we have to shut it down otherwise it
will continue the country will
continue to militarize and we'll be in
this situation for much much longer
and it will keep getting worse we will
devolve into sparta and while
i'm sure there's a bunch of macho guys
out there that think that's a good idea
it's not
curtailing that influence a
congressperson recently suggested
banning recruitment of young people
active recruitment from the military
keeping them out of schools off of uh
certain social media platforms
that's probably a good place to start
get them out of the indoctrination
that war is good because that's part of
it on some levels
it's spiritual it's become part of our
national identity
if we allow it to stay there it will
continue to erode
the good things that this country could
be
anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good day now in theory
there's going to be a break here and
then
we're going to come back and talk about
how the military industrial complex
isn't actually a thing not the way most
people picture it
okay welcome back so
eisenhower said this right
eisenhower recognized the pervasive
influence that was given to certain
industries the military-industrial
complex he gave it a name
he gave it a name the reason he
recognized it
in the military is because before he was
president eisenhower
he was general eisenhower he watched it
develop
he saw it there now there's an
unsubstantiated rumor that in the
initial drafts
of this speech it wasn't military
industrial complex
it was military industrial congressional
complex and
while we don't know if that's true it's
a rumor
whether or not it is it's more accurate
it makes the term make more sense
but even that alone it's still not
accurate
he recognized it in the military because
he was familiar with it
but this idea of industry
using its profits to create influence to
influence policy making
which is designed to increase their
profits not necessarily for the public
good
it's pervasive it's everywhere
so military-industrial complex isn't
really a thing
a guy named noam chomsky said there's no
such thing as the military-industrial
complex
it's just the industrial system
he's right he's right there
in and of itself there's nothing wrong
with
a large industry a large method of
production that's not
there's nothing wrong with that the
problem comes
when that influence becomes
used to put their profits
over people their profits over the
public good
this influence is everywhere and
congress is a big part of it
the prison industrial complex that's a
term getting thrown out around a lot
right now it's the same thing private
prisons need their beds full
so they lobby to have longer sentences
they put in their contracts that certain
x number of people
must be arrested
contrary to the public good we have tons
of studies
saying that long incarceration periods
don't work
they don't do any good they just cost
people money
cost the taxpayers money cost people
their lives
but it makes those private prison
companies
make more money
contrary to the public good that's the
big
piece of it that's the part that matters
big agriculture same thing there's
nothing wrong with giant farms
there's nothing wrong with it well from
a
there might be from an environmental
standpoint but
the idea of large industry there's no
issue
the problem comes when those profits get
used to influence
congress and then
enact policies that are contrary to the
public good so those
large companies can make more money
it's not the military-industrial complex
it's not
the prison industrial complex it is not
big agriculture
it's just corruption when we give it
these other names
we add legitimacy to these campaign
contributions
to these lobbying events it's
corruption we need to start calling it
what it is
when eisenhower came up with this he
wasn't trying to add a veneer
he was really trying to give us a
warning but we didn't listen
we focused on that term and it became
[Music]
a joke it became in in in most people's
minds
it's a conspiracy theory it's something
that those those radical people say and
nobody really knows what it means
plain language is really important the
military industrial complex the prison
industrial complex
all of this it's just corruption
yeah you sound like you have a firmer
grasp
on what you're talking about if you use
these terms
it's definitely grounded in history
there's a reality there
but if you're trying to sway people's
opinion
maybe it's better to just call it
corruption
maybe it's better to just give people
the term
that they know that they can recognize
company x makes money because of policy
decisions
from the government company x then
spends money
that goes into the coffers of those who
make the decisions
that's corruption yeah it's a bigger
cycle here it's not a direct bribe
but it certainly corrupts people
that's why you have billions billions
for defense spending in that recent
stimulus package
that's why it's there because it's so
pervasive
nobody even considers it and yeah
republicans rank and file republicans
are coming out against it now
uh it seems like everybody in the
republican party is against it so i'm
not sure how it wound up in there
the thing is all of that spending if the
political imagery wasn't bad if it was
in any other bill
it would pass they'd vote for it
because they've all gotten their
contributions
they are all under the influence of
corruption not the military-industrial
complex
it's just corruption anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day